welcome back again ladies and gentlemen
zloz la montgomery here china history
podcast episode 249 the history of Xin
Jiang part 6 the Tron history podcast is
brought to you by nobody in particular
but if you'd like to be the sponsor of
such a popular long-running family
program as this contact me here at CHP
headquarters find me at the website at
tea cup dot media imagine the prestige
and respectability your organization or
company could garner of fixing your name
to the CHP ten years old next week June
9th
so let's finally get to the Tong dynasty
I can't believe it took six episodes to
get here the father and son cofounders
of the Tong Li Ren and Lee sure mean
they were perfect examples of Han
Chinese elites of their day who were
filled to the brim with Turkic
sensibilities and a familiarity and
appreciation of the culture and having
all this understanding and their back
pocket like they did allowed them to
build a special kind of bond with the
eastern turkic khaganate
do you remember of course from late in
the game last episode the turkic
khaganate founded by bull men broke up
into East and West at the start of the
Sui dynasty and 581 founding Emperor
Wendy having a bit of a hand in the
break-up Shui Wendy sui yang D and now
Tong tights own their ability to know
their northern Kirk Turk neighbors
allowed for a different style of
relationship than what we saw with the
Han Dynasty and the Xiang nu for example
this made it much easier for the early
Tong rulers to insinuate themselves
inside the political struggles happening
to the north and using their familiarity
with Turkic ways their culture their
politics and language of course well
they were most effective in manipulating
events to the maximum benefit of the
tongue let me lift a quote from James a
mill words Eurasian cross
regarding the embrace of tur culture by
the tongue elites quote Chinese
historiographers argue that the
northerners had thoroughly been saina
sized but it makes more sense to say
that the Chinese aristocracy was Turkish
eyes many members of the Tang court
displayed many Central Asian and steppe
influences riding horses
speaking Turkish and preference to
Chinese and playing polo Tania letes
also indulged in a passion for couch
e'en music for Sogdian whirling dance
and for the exotic Western goods brought
by Sogdian merchants one Tong prince
chose to live in a yurt and would offer
guests chunks of roast mutton carved off
with his own dagger tongue music was
played on the lutes violas and
percussion instruments of Central Asia
and India tongue poets saying of
infatuation with Western dancing girls
for these and other reasons the Tong
period was one of Imperial China's most
open and cosmopolitan quote the Tong
Prince mentioned was tight Soames oldest
son Lee Chung Chien he was the older
brother of the gout song Emperor this
one-time Crown Prince goes down in
history as the royal in the early Tang
Court who really embraced Turkic culture
in a wildly enthusiastic way when he got
caught by his father trying to usurp the
throne and his career went all downhill
from there and he was gone by 644 gone
in the sense of departed like the Martin
Scorsese movie this affinity for all
things Turkic started with some say the
greatest conquering Emperor China had
seen since Han Liu T and this of course
was tang co-founder tight zone so early
in his reign soon after the incident
that Shen will Gate covered in CHP
episode 129 ger Turks soldiers were
carrying out incursions into core
Chinese land south of the way river ride
up to the gates of Chung on the capital
they rattled tied somes cage and forced
him back on his heels and he had to
resort to appeasement keep these
northerners at bay by 629 however when
this tongue emperor saw the infighting
going on in the north amongst the
eastern turks into the fray he jumped a
lying himself with a pugnacious Turkic
vassal of the Eastern coggan it called
the Sri Yantra in this giant haw
Alliance
allowed tong forces to launch an
offensive against the eastern turcica
gonnit the Sri Yantra were based in
northern Mongolia on the Russian border
south of Lake Baikal and by the Year 630
the Tong Army with the assistance of
these giant otter --cs
put an end to the eastern Turkic Agana
to the Battle of Yin mountain that's in
present-day Inner Mongolia with tight
song starting lineup of generals
participating in this campaign and with
has so much local knowledge military
smarts and diplomacy Oh
before long the Tang court was calling
all the shots up in this eastern turcica
gonnit and it stayed this way for almost
half a century lasting from 632 682
besides Tung China the Shogun thought
turned out to be the big winners filling
a vacuum of the lands lost by the
Eastern Turks sooner or later the Tong
military is gonna have to deal with them
- and by 646 the shay'in tall were put
away about a tongue with a little help
from their new friends who we will look
at in more detail next episode you may
have heard of them these were another
group of Turks called the we Gers now
the only other thing I want to mention
about the Cheyenne tois was that it's
believed not by everyone that the
Chateau Turks may have splintered off
from them from past CHP episodes we
remember the shot or turks for their
role in assisting the tang dynasty to
crush the on Liu Shan rebels and for
their role in the later demise of the
Tong and the various successor States
they formed in the wake of the fall of
the Tong
and that was during the Five Dynasties
and ten kingdoms era so having these
Gert Turks in the north and their back
pocket proved extremely useful in the
bigger picture that was on the mind of
the tongue Emperor and this was the same
old China dream going back to the Han
Dynasty that being that take over in
control of the western regions Xin Jiang
the sway already had a minimal presence
out there but not in a big way those
lands were at that time decidedly
dominated by the Western Turkic agon it
but no matter that on rulers were able
to utilize all the soft power and
diplomatic tools at their disposal and
in order to project some influence and
power out there
they used the tried-and-true hutchins
system and other forms of coercive
diplomacy we looked at the Hutchins
system a couple episodes ago marrying
off ones princesses for the sake of
peace and Amity the tang rulers knew
very well what kind of wealth and
strategic value the western regions
contained if they knew this in the Han
of course it was a hundred times more so
in the tongue and tight zone began
eyeing the west early and these Eastern
Turks who he had recently subdued and
many of whom now served him in the
tongue army they were gonna come in
handy as mercenaries in his armies the
whole story of the tongue domination of
these western regions modern-day Xin
Jiang you'd be surprised how few of
these people fighting and serving out
there were hunched I knees most of the
Tong generals who fought and certainly
most of the soldiers overwhelmingly all
Turks this whole enterprise in Xinjiang
that ran hot and cold from the 630 s to
790 about a century and a half the Tong
military pretty much subcontracted all
their Wars out to these Turkic people
from the steppes of Mongolia and
Kazakhstan they were the ones who wrote
most of the history of Xinjiang between
the 7th
ninth centuries and with so many Turks
serving out there doing all the heavy
lifting for the tongue generals well if
you ever wondered how did so many Turkic
people end up in Xinjiang and west of
the shinjang border it all goes back to
this time by the 10th century the days
when you mostly saw indo-european
indo-iranian a wind down to cover every
battle and broken alliance and all the
names of all the leaders of so many
turkic tribes honestly it'll make your
head spin yet this was the story of the
tongue experience and she and John from
tight song to dud song so I'll try to
tell it as best I can
between 632 and 640 the tongue army
along with their Turkic allies to the
north steamrolled in to Xin Jiang it
began warring with the Western Turks for
control of the cities and kingdoms and
one by one the tongue forces chock-full
of these Turkic soldiers and 6:32 took
the cities of kashgar and coat on then
Yarkon and 635 and GAO chang and 640 Cao
hung up in the Turpin Basin the lat city
just below the houyan shun those flaming
mountains discussed last episode it
became a administrative center for the
tongue Protectorate of the western
regions it was quite an important place
in its day you could still visit the
ruins of Gao Chong and the Astana
cemetery where all these Han Chinese
settlers and administrators had their
final resting place don't miss that on
your next visit to Turpin GAO chang also
known as cara koja and many other names
is a place we'll keep hearing about
throughout this series it's one of the
most important cities as far as China's
presence in Xinjiang during the tang
went
so after Gao Xiang had been taken by
Tong forces it got a name change to
shijou and it served as the first seat
of the Tong Protectorate of the western
regions this will be the first
permanent and was meant to be permanent
Chinese military presence in Shenzhen
two prefectures had been created this
one in shijou and north of there in ting
ting prefecture modern Jim SAR County
will become important later on as one of
the capitals of the Weger state in
Xinjiang will also be the site of the
Protectorate set up during what's a tens
time and the time protect her in the
West was just one of the Tong
protectorates then a lot of military
adventures going on the dynasty also
maintained protectorates in Vietnam
Korea and Mongolia from this shijou base
in the Turpin Basin established during
the time of tight zone the Tong armies
started to plan the take over the rest
of Xinjiang on the other side of the
tension and the Tarim basin perhaps the
most notable fighting name from this
time would be the Turkic general whose
soldiers did most of the clobbering this
was a former Eastern coggan at Royal
Prince named Asher na char
that's his Chinese name of course in the
Turkic languages of the day they didn't
pronounce it that way through a
complicated concatenation of
circumstances involving his armies
holding territories in Xinjiang Asher
Naja are in 635 had submitted to the
tight song Emperor and for this act of
loyalty he was given the title of
general of the left guard and to show
how much importance and value the tight
song Emperor placed in Hashanah are in
636 he handed over his own sister the
princess hung yang to be this conquering
generals lawful wedded wife
starting in 640 the Tong army started
their takeover of Xin Jiang it didn't
happen all at once and once they had it
they didn't hold on to it for too long
Gao Chun now renamed shijou became an
important base of operations to carry
out military campaigns south of the Tien
Shan
the all-important and strategic Taron
basin
now after GAO chang was taken in six 40s
the armies of Ashur naja are started to
go after the parts of Xin Jiang that
hadn't submitted to Tang China
now the first kingdom over the ten shan
mountains to the south was Kerris our
modern-day Yin Shi carasau had opted to
ally themselves with the Western turcica
gonnit it took a long time and I can
detail all the skullduggery that went on
but let me just say that uh sure now
sure ours army subdued them in 644 next
up after chaos are to the West Was Kucha
shields always the same places century
after century they too in 648 a year
after the passing of tide zone they
opted to surrender with minimal
resistance but then after submitting and
with astronaut Shah are out conquering
elsewhere the leadership in Kucha had a
change of heart and switched their
allegiance back to the Western Turkic
agon it then they turned on the tongue
generals base their core shall cook Gua
with a sure Naja are acted as the tip of
the tongue spear in the tire and base
and take over well he was seized and
killed by the couch ins Ashur na Shah
and his army of a hundred thousand
rushed back there and violently beat
this kingdom back into submission and
for defying Tang China and killing Gua
schalke to teach the inhabitants a
lesson eleven thousand of them were
executed and decapitated several parts
of Kucha were also razed to the ground
Draco from 7th century BCE Greece would
have been proud of that kind of
punishment in all of shinjang this
coachin Kingdom as I indicated last
episode was known as the most cultured
and splendid of all these Oasis States
after getting raked over the coals and
devastated by astronaut chars forces
this indo-european civilization
that's Indian influences never again
came back in its historic form and like
a lot of these ancient cities over the
eighth and ninth centuries started to
become less and less indo-european and
more Turkic in their makeup and like I
said after the 10th century and it was
hardly recognizable to Howard it once
been prior to the Tong dynasty over in
coton on the other side of the
Taklamakan desert they got so frightened
after hearing what happened in Kucha
they sent representatives posthaste to
Chang'an to show fealty and beg not to
be laid waste by Ashur Naja arse troops
a temporary setback had hit the tongue a
few years before and 645 when some more
muscular leadership emerged up in the
eastern kaga net and they began to push
back hard against hung dominance over
their affairs it was always like this
Chinese domination followed by some push
back and then back to being friends so
it had been in large part thanks to
tight zone that in no time at all the
thanh military was highly dependent on
these Turkic warriors like Asher Naja
our to fight their battles and this
included against the Western Turks and
in Korea as well from here on out tong
military history will be written in good
part by generals and heroes with Turkic
names and Lucian the Tong general and
government official who will rip the
tongue dynasty apart with the rebellion
he'll lead a century later he was half
turk and half side Dean Asher Naja R was
so useful and loyal to the tight zone
Emperor that when he died in 655 a
half-dozen years after tide zone he was
buried next to the Emperor tight song's
mission was to conquer and hold the
Oasis states of Sheen Jang's basins and
it was left up to his son emperor
gaozong beginning in 648 to organize and
consolidate these fruits of victory for
the dynasty
in order to manage the whole Xin Jiang
operation he called for four Garrison's
to be set up in strategic locations
around Xin Jiang in Kucha kolton kashgar
and caris are these four garrison
locations were called the unchi sujin
the four Garrison's of unchi unchi that
means to pacify the west that's what
this is all about pacifying this region
west of China building a buffer between
China and Central Asia and of course
getting a piece of some of the lucrative
Silk Road trade and commerce for about a
century and a half these four Garrison's
spread out around Xin Jiang manage the
entire enterprise out there for Tang
China and not only in Xinjiang even
beyond the borders into the great
trading cities of modern-day Kazakhstan
Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan in those
places too for a brief time anyway and
just as Han Rudy and his successors
through a strong military presence
ensured peace and prosperity along the
Silk Roads here again in tongue china
thanks to a winning combination of a
strong military and capable leadership
at the top china promoted a period of
peace and stability that facilitated an
ideal environment for trade and commerce
and shinjang to thrive like never before
in chinese history and as I mentioned
cultural exchanges were taking place on
an unprecedented scale in Asia Chung on
had joined the likes of Carthage Rome
and Constantinople as another historic
city were people from all over the known
world who had the means and wherewithal
to travel came to and this capital of so
many past Chinese dynasties was turned
into a great entrepot of trade as well
as a place where the diffusion of
intellectual ideas and knowledge also
took place on a grand scale the gallop
song Emperor like his father had big
plans for the western region and his
Turkic allies were going to be
indispensable for the out
raishin of this tongue Protectorate to
pacify the West the and she do who fool
with the establishment of the
Protectorate initially and GAO chang and
then later in Kucha were at state for
most of the time well for a short time
anyway 7th century tang china was the
dominant power in the Tarim and turpan
basins but as more and more ethnic Turks
began to migrate in the direction of Xin
Jiang support for the tongue Emperor
starting around 651 was becoming diluted
at an alarming rate because of the
cultural and familial ties the loyalties
of these Turks based now in Xin Jiang
began to turn to a new strong leader who
emerged in the mid 650s this was a sure
not Hulu ah sure nah remember that was
the ruling clan of the ger Turks going
back to the founder Puma Hashanah hulu
was a former Turkic general in the
employ of the tongue who had struck out
on his own and had been able to rally
and unite the Western Turks and he
started battling the tonk forces and
taking back what had been lost to China
during tight song and galled song so
beginning in 655 the cow song Emperor
had to do something once her lose
military incursion started affecting the
edges of China proper in consu his first
campaign against colu it didn't fare too
well but the second that was launched in
657 that culminated in the Battle of
urges River easternmost Kazakhstan that
one succeeded in that Turkic threat in
the West was neutralized after being
defeated hulu had been able to escape to
the west at Tashkent
but the people there in that present-day
capital of Uzbekistan after considering
the possible upside no doubt handed hulu
over to the Thai authorities
an emperor gaozong didn't have him
killed and instead allowed him to live
out the rest of his days in the capital
Chang An on
close watch I presume this major
offensive against the Western cog on it
that spelled the end of Hashanah Hulu
was led by another military figure who
was also on the list of other great
China generals who came and saw and
conquered territory and shinjang this
was suiting Phung he's doubly famous is
not only the gout song Emperor's go to
general for Xin Jiang he also served
later in Korea as well fighting against
the kingdom of BEC je there and that was
in 660 so once ooh ding Fong hit tamp
down all the fires in Xin Jiang the Tong
Empire was again solidly in control of
the basis of Xin Jiang the Western
cabinet with a sure now hulu defeated
was leaderless for the time being and
not as much of a threat however one
tribe was starting to emerge that will
give the Tang Dynasty Xin Jiang
operation a real hard time these are the
Turkish they were another major clan
like the gurke Turk scar Luke's and
others as well
the Turkish had their own qug on it for
67 years 699 to 766 and I could give you
names of some of their key guns if you
want but with the Turks down but not out
well it didn't mean things quieted down
for the tongue and Xin Jiang there was
something else going on to the south of
Xin Jiang on the Tibetan Plateau the
Western Turks weren't China's only
threatened Xin Jiang there was also the
kingdom of Tibet as all these events
have been yammering on about were
transpiring between the Turks and Tang
China
Tibet's most famous and charismatic
leader was at the peak of his powers in
the six 40s
this was Sultan gampo now if you're
familiar with the princess when Cheung
story when Chang Gong chul
she was tight Soames niece who well if
you remember from past CHP episodes in
the hood Qing tradition had been given
to the Tibetan King to keep the peace
much later on
she became a propaganda superstar
princess when Chung the Chinese
history's will be proud to tell you
brought Buddhism and other aspects of
civilization to Tibet under Songshan GaN
pose leadership the Tibetan Empire grew
in size and power and when the time was
right they went on the warpath against
China as early as 656 seven years after
the passing of songs and gampo the
Tibetan armies were knocking on the door
of southern Xinjiang as well as in
Kashmir and in the year 660 the Tibetans
only a couple years after the Tong
armies had vanquished the Turkic forces
of Hashanah hulu they invaded shinjang
attacked kashgar and the Wakhan corridor
those of you familiar with the geography
of Afghanistan the Wakhan corridor is
that appendage that sticks out at the
northeast part of Afghanistan and splits
tajikistan from pakistan and separates
the Pamirs from the Karakoram mountains
just as the Hershey corridor linked
Gansu to Xin Jiang the Wakhan corridor
served the same role linking Xin Jiang
to Central Asia along the southern route
of the Silk Road and the tip of that
appendage that juts straight to the east
touches Southwest Xin Jung and that's
right where the Tibetans invaded in 663
they attacked coltan and in the fateful
year of 670 at the Battle of davay River
the forces of the then mighty Tibetan
Empire handed the Tong Chinese army a
defeat so resounding and decisive it
spelled the end of tong dominance and
Xin Jiang for a while at least this
battle was in Ching hai just west of the
capital shining and south of the Gansu
or the XI corridor after defeating Tang
China at Daath a river the Tibetan
Army's evicting the Tong army and
administration out of Kucha and
one-by-one turned out all the lights for
the tank
stay in and around the terrorem basin
the Protectorate was forced to move
further to the west inside what is today
Kyrgyzstan and between 648 and 719 the
tongue ran their Protectorate from the
city of suya a former capital of the
Western Turkic Hagana and if you believe
the story the birthplace of Li Bai in
701 the Chinese called the place su yen
and it was about fifty kilometers east
of Bishkek anyway in 719 the Turkish
captured su ya bandit on had to vacate
the Turkish were the dominant tribe who
rose to the top of the food chain after
the fall of the Western Turkic agon it
by 673 however the tongue military was
able to regroup and make an attempt at
getting back into Xin Jiang this is
still during Gao songs reign they were
able to take back Kucha and use this
base to regroup and take back all that
had been lost to the Tibetans who had
found common cause with the Western
Turks and worked with them to put China
out of business and she's young but by
679 the Tang military thanks to another
noted official and general patient Gen a
protege of soothing Fung they had
achieved most of their military
objectives seizing back control of the
tyrant basin lost previously at the
Battle of daf a river I wish I could
tell you the history of the tongue
presence and Xin Jiang was all nicely
packaged and easy to digest with
everything long-lasting with fixed
historical maps and a few marquee names
and the Seiya truth is at least in
trying to understand this history's that
the political boundaries in Xinjiang
starting around the six 70s and 80s
shifted as regularly as the sands of the
Taklamakan desert unlike before prior to
the sway and tong now there were other
civilizations competing with China for
control out there and all of them were
equally powerful and advanced to read
the histories as to
get lost in dozens of Turkic Chinese and
Tibetan names always contending for
control over the Tarim basin and nothing
remained fixed for any great period of
time I'm really glossing over most of
the details and I welcome you to get
lost in them and any number of history
books and over inch hung on well not
everyone at the Imperial Court was all
gung-ho about holding on to these
western regions cost a lot of money to
conquer and hold on to an empire this
big by the six 80s the end of Gao song
and the start of empress wu there was
quite a lot of resistance to keep up the
fight out west
after clawing everything back three
years following the death of the gaucho
emperor in 686 during the reign of woods
attend once again these four Garrison's
of unchi were lost the decisive once and
for all and for Tang China and Xin Jiang
didn't come till much later in the seven
90s but by 692 they were still in the
game it had been able to re-establish
the on sheep Protectorate seat in Kucha
woods attend during her time as China's
only woman to rule the nation as Empress
and her own rights set up her own
Protectorate and baiting the baiting duo
fool this was up in the Turpin Basin
where ting and she Prefecture were
located
she got this Protectorate up and running
in 702 a dozen years into her ill-fated
Zhuo dynasty this particular do Hulu or
protectorate had a much smaller
portfolio than the unchi protectorate
with its four Garrison's around the
Tarim basin Woods attends baiting
Protector it only had to look after the
two main ancient cities of the turpan
basin
haami and Gao Qiang which as I said
earlier had already been renamed shi
prefecture these ruins by the way still
remain today and are part of the whole
Silk Road unesco world heritage site the
history of the baiting protectorate in
the turpan basin involves a lot of
battles with the biggest
antagonists of the Tong dynasty in those
parts these were still the Tibetans the
baiting Protectorate by seven fifteen
ten years after Woods attends death at
the age of eighty one was already
getting attacked by the Tibetan Empire
and other turkic tribes the Tibetans
were now bigger and better than ever
more than a century after the passing of
some ten gampo let's finish up today
with general Gaussian jure and the
famous Battle of Talas 751 the Telos
river flows from the mountains of
kyrgyzstan westward into kazakhstan the
heartland of transoxiana the tongue army
was led by this capable general don't be
fooled by his Chinese name Gaussian jure
was an ethnic Korean and was also
written into the history books as Co
Sanji out in Xinjiang it was always the
Chinese military that did the talking
for the imperial court and Gaussian
juror involved himself with a political
dispute around the Fergana Valley siding
with one ruler against another and ended
up being quite forceful and how he
handled the situation and the other side
who had been pushed out by the tongue
went to their allies in Samarkand the
Abbasids who had just established a
Caliphate after putting away the
Umayyads the year before and 750 good
thing for Tang China these Arabs had the
same tendency as the Mongols Turks and
Tibetans to savage each other in times
of succession so while they had been
sorting out their internal issues well
that's what opened up that window of
opportunity for the tongue mid to late
740 s the second half of Emperor Shang
Tsung's long reign this is how the
tongue forces have been able to retake
su yob so they got to enjoy one last
power grab in these rich lands beyond
the Western Xin Jiang borders mainly and
present-day Kyrgyzstan
but in 751 this brief final hurrah for
the tongue in central asia was finished
these Arab and Persian Muslim forces
teamed up with Tang China's greatest
eighth century Menace the Tibetan Empire
and these allies combined and attacked
Gaussian Jers forces and along the talas
River Gaussian Jers army suffered a
sound defeat this was no minor skirmish
it was written that there were as many
as a hundred thousand troops on each
side involved in this epic battle
primarily fought between the Arabs and
the Chinese a sizable portion of
Gaussian jurors army were filled with
troops from the car looks another one of
the more powerful turkic tribes to come
out of the eastern coggan it well these
car looks had always been loyal to the
Chinese emperor and like many a Turk had
served the Tong royal house well
throughout the years but this time at
the Battle of tell us the car Luke's
ended up switching sides mid battle and
turned on the tongue army these Chinese
forces found themselves sandwiched in
between the opposing Abbasid and Karluk
forces Gao Xiang sure barely escaped
with his life he withdrew from the
battlefield and had planned to get his
forces back into shape again but by 755
the and Liu Shan rebellion had broken
out in Gaussian ji'er along with all
that generals and majors and tong troops
all had to abandon the mission in the
western regions and head east to go help
in the fight against the rebels anyway
the most famous story that came out of
the Battle of Telos besides it being the
first and last time Arab and Chinese
armies would meet on the battlefield was
the alleged capture of Chinese soldiers
who as the legend goes were master
papermakers member going back to
Thailand in 105 seee the Chinese had
been able to hold on to the secrets of
making that nice paper they did well
after being captured at the Battle of
Talas these Chinese masters were brought
to Arab controlled lands and who knows
if the secret was beaten out of them or
they gave it willingly
but the
century is when the Arab papermaking
industry took off and they became quite
good at it to say the least
and throughout the early and late Middle
Ages the papermaking industry and the
Arab world was second to none did they
steal this manufacturing process from
China who knows it's all part of the
legend of the Battle of Talas and though
they are already very heavily involved
in this history going on and I haven't
mentioned them yet this is the Uighur
next episode you'll get to meet them and
find out from whence they came and the
Empire they created and their hand and
all these events we've been discussing
these Turkic people will play a key role
in all the history that transpires in
Xinjiang from the moment they enter the
picture during the tongue all the way
into modern times okay one last
desperate plea a final appeal to
everyone racking their brains trying to
think of a way to support this China
history podcast program there's
patreon.com okay okay you need to keep a
payment method on file but for a measly
three bucks a month thirty-six smackers
a year you can ensure I keep this
travelling circus going for at least two
more weeks patreon.com slash China
history podcast
there you'll find stories from my
unspectacular at holy ordinary China
life stories that are utterly unsuited
for this quality and respectable RSS
feed but they're all there waiting for
you at patreon thank you in advance
though I will also thank you personally
if you subscribe and if the whole idea
of patreon is completely out of the
question
there's always PayPal I have a whole
thing set up so that all you got to do
is go to paypal.com is to a podcast and
donate whatever your heart desires hit
enter you'll have my eternal gratitude
links to what I just said all at the web
site at tea cup dot media okay Lazlo
Montgomery here thanking you for
listening and signing off from the
quaint little town of Los Angeles Cal
fornia and once again I beseech you my
good-looking and respectable listeners
to join me next time for another
exciting episode of that China history
podcast
you